All right, so let's start talking
about creating methods and constructors
with arguments and return values.
The following is from Oracle's Java 11 specification
describing the structure of a method declaration.
So you've got the method modifier,
method header, then method body.
The method modifiers are similar
to field modifiers.
So these are the access modifiers.
The default modifier is package.
No modifier, in other words.
They've got public, protected, and private.
And the non-access modifiers:
abstract, declaring a method abstract means it's
not implemented, it has no body.
A non-abstract method is called a concrete method.
Static, we've got the static non-access modifier.
Static method is called a class method,
it can be called using the class name.
Final, well that declares that a method's definition
is complete and no subclasses can override it or hide it.
Strictfp, effect of a strictfp modifier is
to restrict floating-point calculations
to ensure portability across platforms.
Synchronised non-access modifier creates
a thread safe method.
And finally, native, a method that is native
is implemented in platform-dependent code,
typically written in another programming language,
so for example, C.
So moving on now, the modifier rules are as follows:
A keyword can only appear once as a modifier
for a method declaration.
Only one of the access modifiers public, protected,
and private is allowed for a single method.
If you use the abstract modifier, your method
can only use public or protected modifier
or no access modifier and must be defined in
an abstract class.
Native and strictfp are not modifiers that
can be used in the same declaration.
So the method header consists of
firstly the result of a method declaration
either declares the type of value
that the method returns, return type in other words,
or uses the key word void to indicate that
that the method does not return a value.
The method header also consists of the name of the method.
It also consists of the formal parameters
of the method or constructor, if any,
and these are specified by lists of
comma-separated parameter specifiers.
Now, each parameter specifier consists of
a type, optionally preceded by the final modifier
and an identifier that specifies the name of the parameter.
If a method or constructor has no formal parameters,
and no receiver parameter, then an empty pair of parentheses
appears in the declaration of the method or constructor.
A formal parameter of a method or constructor
may be a varargs parameter,
indicated by an ellipsis followed by the type.
At most, one varargs parameter is permitted,
it has to be in the very last position.
A method can optionally declare a throws clause
to denote any checked exception classes.
Now we're gonna discuss exceptions
in the exceptions section further on in this course.
So at a minimum, a method declaration looks like as follows:
Void, the method name, and parentheses.
All right, so let's look at some valid method declarations
and then after this we'll look at some invalid ones.
So void method, parentheses is valid.
This method has no parameters and returns no result.
Next we've got void method, and string a in parentheses.
This method has one parameter of
type string and returns no result back.
Next we've got void method, parentheses object
dot, dot, dot or the ellipsis o.
So this method has a varargs parameter,
meaning you can pass zero to many objects
in a comma delimited list (mumbles).
Next we've got object method parentheses.
This method has no parameters and returns an object back.
Next, string method, parentheses,
final int a comma int b in those parentheses.
So this method passes two int parameters,
but the final key word prevents the method
from changing the value of the parameter in the method code.
And just as an example there,
string method and in parentheses,
final int a comma final int b,
you can declare multiple parameters to the final.
All right, so let's now look at some invalid declarations.
The first one there is method parentheses.
Well, this is invalid.
The method requires a return type or the keyword void
indicating no value is to be returned.
Next we've got void, method,
and then parentheses string a comma b.
Each parameter must be defined with its own type.
Next, void method, parentheses object dot dot dot
ellipsis o comma string a.
The varargs parameter must be the last parameter
in a method's parameter list.
Next, void method, parentheses object
dot dot dot ellipsis o comma object
dot dot dot another ellipsis a.
We can only have one varargs parameter
in a method declaration.
And the final two, string method, parentheses final
final int a comma int b.
This is a duplicate final key word,
it cannot be used for one parameter.
The final invalid example there,
string method in parentheses int a comma object a.
You can't have two parameters with the same name.
All right, so before we talk about
the structure of a method's body,
it is important to explain a method signature.
So a method signature uniquely defines a method.
Two methods with the same signature
cannot be defined in one class.
So the signature consists of the method name
and an ordered list of parameter types.
The signature does not consist of
modifiers, return type, parameter names, or a throws clause.
That sounds very simple and usually it is,
but when we talk about overloaded methods,
overridden methods, class inheritance,
and implementing interfaces, you will see that
the definition of the same type can get more complicated.
So we'll save these examples for a little bit later.
So looking at a method body,
it's either a block of code that implements the method
or simply a semi-colon indicating
the lack of an implementation.
A concrete method requires brackets, curly braces.
Before we go any further we have to
address the statement I made in the introduction to methods,
that Java always passes parameters
by value, not by reference.
The pass by value, or call by value,
means anything passed into a function or method call
is unchanged in the caller's scope
when the functional method, in this case for Java, returns.
Call by reference, on the other hand,
also referred to as pass by reference,
where a method receives an implicit reference
to the variable used as a parameter
and not a copy of its value.
Any modifications to the parameter
would be seen by the calling code.
So, call by reference can be imitated, purposely or not,
in languages that use call by value by using
or by making use of references.
This is similar to call by sharing,
passing an object, which can then be mutated.
Java is said to have call by sharing.
This means that string objects, which are immutable,
and primitive data types will not have their values changed.
A copy is made and passed to methods,
when the method returns to the calling scope.
However, if you are passing an
object reference of any kind,
a change to the underlying object
which the reference refers to,
will be reflected when the method returns.
Now this is still considered pass by value,
because the reference that the method receives
in the form of a parameter, is a copy of the reference
in the calling scope.
So, in other words, the reference won't change
when returning from the method.
However, the data on the referenced object may
if it's been changed in the method.
All right, so let's end the video here
and in the next one we'll start
going through some of this with some examples in code.
See you in the next video.